All right guys we're going to start our next project which is going to be a CSX timeline and in some
of you guys may have seen something like this before it's just a timeline that has different years it
could be any type of data.
This happens to be just web development knowledge.
And when I actually learn this stuff so you can see it starts in 2007 with each team on CSX then we
go to JavaScript and J query p p and WordPress and notice that we have these coming in from the sides
just animating in sliding in.
Now we're gonna have to add a little bit of JavaScript at the end if we want to have that type of effect
because it only in JavaScript can we tell where we are in the viewport and stuff like that.
You can't do that with just pure CSX.
Also when the page loads they'll come in from the side but as far as the whole layout here we're gonna
do that first and we're just gonna use each team on CNS for that.
All right so we'll we'll try to do the javascript at the very end.
So I have a empty folder called knowledge resumé and we're just going to need two files for now.
So let's create index dot h t model and let's create style dot CSF.
I'm just gonna put the CSX right in the route and let's close up the side bar and go into our H team
L and generate our boilerplate and for the title we'll just say knowledge timeline and let's link our
style sheet so style dot CSX and we're also gonna be using font awesome so let's grab that real quick.
So font awesome dot com will click this start using free and then grab the link here paste that right
in.
All right.
And then down in the body we're gonna have a header and we'll give this an idea of just main dash header
and we're gonna have in here a container class and then let's put in H1 and we're gonna have that the
brain icon.
So I took the class of ass or font awesome and then F A Dash brain that will give us that icon and then
we just want to put the text knowledge resume and you can change up this if you want if you want to
use different data and make it something completely different.
That's that's absolutely fine.
So let's put it in an h three underneath and we just want to put the user's name but I want to put an
icon as well so FAA as FAA dash user.
And then next to that icon I'll put my name but feel free to put your own.
And if we save this and open it up we're gonna see this.
OK.
So now under the header we just want a section and we're gonna give this an idea of timeline.
And like I said all this is gonna be is an unordered list so we're gonna do a U L and then each ally
is just gonna have a div and then it's gonna have an h three with the year and in the technology.
I also want to put a Chevron icon.
So we're gonna do FAA S F A Dash Chevron dash right.
And then we'll put a year so say 2007 and I'll say h Tim L and CSX.
And then underneath I'll do a paragraph with let's say 20 words OK so I'll save that.
And it should look like this.
Now the H.
What's cool about this project is each team is very simple it's just it's just list items exactly like
this.
There's no nothing's different.
They're all the exact same.
They just have different titles.
So in that case I'm going to just paste the rest in because I don't want to just type out the same thing
over and over just with different titles.
So let me just go right under this ally and pieces in and save.
And basically if you want to pause the video if you want to do exactly what I'm doing as far as the
text and the content just change the titles it's the same as the first one we did there is different
titles different years.
Now I am going to add just some core styling in this video so we are going to use some variables so
I'm going to have a root scope and I want a primary color and we're gonna set that to a blue.
They're both gonna be shades of blue so let's do four to five and we want to be a four.
OK so that's gonna be our primary and then our secondary color is gonna be hexadecimal and it's gonna
be five B seven Bebe four.
So that'll be our secondary color and then I'm just going to also set a max width and we'll set that
to eleven hundred pixels.
So that's all I'm gonna do for variables and again if you guys find something that you think you should
be put in a variable for easy access or whatever.
Feel free to do so and then I'm just gonna add a reset.
So let's do margin zero padding zero and box sizing for the box.
And then for the body let's do a font let's put everything in just the font tag.
So I'm going to do a normal font way.
Let's do one room.
Let's do one point five.
Line height and let's do aerial font sans serif.
So just a shortcut for the font.
And then the background for the body is going to be the primary colors.
So let's grab that.
OK.
And then the color is going to be white and I'm gonna add an overflow.
I don't know if I showed you guys this so I did.
I've done overflow hidden which means that there's not going to be any scroll bars.
Also it's going to include all the content.
It's not going to like you know stop above the content or whatever but we can also do overflow dash
X and dash y and it just pertains to that access.
So I don't want to have any type of scroll bars that go horizontal so I'm gonna set this to hidden.
All right.
And then I'm just going to add padding bottom of 50 pixels just to have a little bit of room on the
bottom.
So we'll save that and it's going to look like this.
So let's take care of the header real quick.
We have an idea of main header and that background is gonna be the secondary color
and let's add padding so we'll say top and bottom for REM.
And if we save that.
OK.
Good.
Now it has a container as well so let's say a container to a max width and we we created a variable
for that.
So Max width is going to be the the width of the the UI and then the header and then margin.
We want to do zero top and bottom and auto left and right push it to the middle.
And let's do text align center and save that.
Good.
And the H one I want to be a little bigger so it's a h ones we want.
Let's do font size we'll do two point three rands and that's pretty much it.
Everything else that we're gonna do is gonna have to do with the timeline.
So we're gonna stop the video here and we'll continue with the timeline see SS in the next one.